GSoC-Journey till Mid term
Hi readers,

Here comes my journey till the mid-term (June 21st) as a blog to share my experience.

I  have previously worked on some social related projects such as “smart guidance for blind” and “sensor based wireless controller”.
I have been selected as a speaker for FOSSASIA-16 (Asia’s premier technological event)to talk on the project “smart guidance for blind”.
FOSSASIA speakers. It was a great experience participating in the technological event in Singapore science centre.Got an opportunity to
meet open source contributors from all over the world(even though it is an Asian event, participation was all over from the world). 
There were pre-meetups for FOSSASIA on the day before three-day event.I have attended the one organised by RedHat, Singapore.Discussed 
on many topics related to open source.

Three days of FOSSASIA event was a great experience.It was the second time as a speaker in an international conference.My talk was on
the second day.Sharing is the best way to increase your knowledge. Talks and workshops were brainstorming.Learnt many new things and
got the courage to contribute to the open source.Met Daniel Pocock in Debian exhibition table.Meeting awesome people can be the turning
point of life.Had a discussion about the Debian projects and it motivated me for open source software.We have discussed about the Real 
Time Communication and was encouraged to apply for GSoC  (Google Summer of Code). As per our discussion, prepared the project proposal 
on “improving voice,video and chat communication with free software” and submitted it for GSoC. I have been selected to contribute for 
Debian with stipend from Google.

This was my first application for GSoC and I have been selected to contribute for open source and free software. I would like to thank 
Google and Debian for giving this amazing experience.

Learning and coding have begun.Updated my laptop with Jessie, latest version of Debian.Get acquainted with the new platform.Got to learn
many things about Real Time Communication.Learnt more about SIP, XMPP, peer-to-peer technology to work on my project.It’s always better
to be clear with theory before coding.When it comes to voice and video over IP, most people nowadays are quick to use Skype, Whatsapp, 
or Viber. My main goals of the project are helping people to avoid using proprietary communications tools like Skype, Viber and WhatsApp
and simplifying the setup of free alternatives like Jitsi, Linphone, Ekiga, Tox (qtox), Mumble.Downloaded some of the already available
open source VoIP to find the problems behind it and improve it further.Bootstrapping any business relevant network based on these free
alternatives is still hard.

Would you like to list the senders, receivers and date of the messages in the inbox  of your mail.Python has a library file IMAP which 
can be used to connect to an email account, examine every message in every folder and look at the “To”, “From” and “CC” headers of 
every email message in the folder.

Do you have phone numbers and other contact details in old emails? Would you like a quick way to data-mine your inbox to find them and
help migrate them to your address book? Got the help from phonenumbers library for parsing, formatting, and validating international 
phone numbers.I would like to share how I imported this library file into my coding.Download the given library file and open the file
in the terminal.Type $ python setup.py to install the library file.Now you can call the functions by importing phonenumbers.

Iain R. Learmonth joined my journey as a mentor.Helped in solving some issues in my coding through GitHub.

You can go through the code in my GitHub profile here.(Recently started committing my projects in GitHub)

It was a wonderful journey till now.Will be working further to improve voice, video and chat communication with free software.
Stay connected to know more about my  further journey through GSoC.
